[Music]
I have to be confident is running from
the doubt. We all doubt like we we none
of us move with 100% confidence. The
question is how much can you welcome the
doubt
is the difference. Not if you have it or
not. So for anybody who's watching this,
please don't take this as a how to coach
video. Um, how to coach is really,
really, really, really, really get to
know yourself and learn a couple skills
and then keep on getting to know
yourself and really spend all your time
in self-discovery or as much of your
time as possible in self-discovery
and then uh translate that into a couple
of tools that that you have. But the but
don't take this if especially cuz we
have a lot of coaches who watch as a a
mechanism of oh this is how to coach or
here's a tool to use please take this
far more as oh what can I learn about
myself in this process what is it that I
can see in myself what is it that I can
see about humanity
that's that's what we do this for it's
not to teach people how to coach why am
I stuck um moving forward ward. Why am I
not moving forward feeling the
confidence um that I want to have after
25 years of being a mental health
professional? Why am I not just running
in and doing this next thing that I'm
ready to do? Why am I stuck? Why am I
Can we stop it? Yeah. Great. So, couple
of things are happening right away in
this coaching session. The first one
that's the biggest
piece of information is she starts with
her eyes closed and and checking in
inwardly.
So there's a way in which being in
herself
and being with me is a difficult
proposition.
So that that's the first piece of
information that's there. This may or
may not be true, but it's a piece of
information. text is that the questions
when asked what the questions are
uh they're all why questions which are
typically more judgmental questions that
are happening. And so that's another
thing that's happening. And when she
goes from internal to external, she
goes, I'm sitting with, which is a
little bit of a separation from herself,
a little bit of a separation from me to,
okay, here's the question. So all of
those things are happening in the first
little bit. And typically,
it's the first little bit that will tell
you a lot about what you're going to be
doing for the, you know, for the next
couple minutes. Yeah. It's fascinating
how that also is the shape of the
question as well, like how how do I
bring what I want to into the world? How
do I do the stuff that I know I'm ready
for? It kind of pretends that there's an
internal sensing that she's able to
recognize like this is what I want to
bring to the world, but then there's a
disconnect between that internal sense
of it and then the connection with the
world to bring it. Exactly. Which seems
similar to the closing of the eyes.
Exactly. and she has to talk herself
into it after 25 years of right there's
there there's not just how do I do it
there's a justification that I she
should be able to and all of that is in
there all right let's move on um I've
got so much readiness parts of me that
are so ready I got it so what what's
what's with the judgment yeah the
judgment um it's not going to be as good
as I think I thought it was going to be
uh I'm not as good as I thought I would
be. Yeah. What's the problem with that?
Um,
I was always the good one. Uh, I always
figured out how to be the top of my
class. Cool. Okay, great. Now we know
what the real issue is. Yeah. So, she
just went through a bunch of story there
and now you said, "Now we know what the
real issue is." What did you see there?
What's What do you see is the real
issue? To be honest, I can't I have no
idea what I'm about to say.
[Laughter]
Um, I must have seen it in the moment.
The judgment immediately pulls out and
she she acknowledges the judgment right
away. I also see the smile on her face
that's happening right now when when it
moves from I'm stuck to I'm judging
myself
and there's a way in which she feels
called out and she's happy with that. So
that's another thing. And if you look at
her face right now, she is so excited,
right? So, whatever it is I'm about to
say, which might be complete BS, we'll
we'll find out in a second. There's
something happening in her right now
that tells you that the stuckness that
she feels is not exactly what she thinks
it is because a person who feels really
stuck wouldn't have that facial
expression. Yeah. And my my curiosity
right now is regardless of what you're
about to say, in her response to you
saying, "Oh, yeah, I see the problem."
What did she imagine the problem was?
like what what is she currently laughing
about? Yeah, that's a great question.
And how relevant is that to her journey?
Yeah. Regardless of the next thing you
say. Exactly. And and we'll probably
find out in a second. Maybe. Let's see.
Let's see. Yeah. You're not the top of
your class in this.
Like no, there's no possible way.
Whatever it is, the project you're going
to want to do next, you're you won't be
the top.
Sit. Sit. Yeah. Feel. Yeah.
So, what I just noticed is that you went
to a sematic experience to not feel
rather than feel. I'm going to pause
right there for those who are listening
and not watching. What she just did
there was she took that information in.
There was an intensity to it, but she
closed her eyes and then did some
breathing. Like some breathing to settle
her nervous system. Yeah. So the answer
to the question is now we know what the
real thing is. What I was doing there is
it's not particularly that I'm pointing
to the real thing. There's levels and
levels of the real thing. But what I'm
doing is I am turning the whole idea of
the judgment around. So often times the
way a person allows themselves to judge
themselves is they say it's going to
come back. The other shoe is going to
fall. I'm not going to be the best. And
it's true.
But what does that have to do with
anything? What does it have to do? Yes,
the other something bad is going to
happen. Something good is going to
happen. Something um uh yes, you're not
going to be the best. It doesn't mean
that what you're going to contribute
isn't amazing. So, the thing that I'm
doing in that moment is really talking
to the judgment. And and for anybody
who's listening, all of your judgments
are like this. All of your judgments are
nonsense on some level. They're either
nonsense and they're not true or they're
nonsense in the fact that they're true,
but the consequences are are not true.
The consequences that you think they are
are not true. And so that's what I'm
doing right there is just flipping that
that script around the judgment. Mhm.
And then then you also said in in
response to her taking that breath,
right, you you pointed out you just went
to a sematic experience in order to not
feel. Can you say more on that? Well,
it's actually the same pattern
repeating, which is, oh, I I need to
perfect something. Like, there's a way
to do this. I'm going to be in control.
Like, that sense of perfecting and
controlling and being good enough. I'm
going to do that right now with this
breath in instead of just let the
wildness of of life run through me for a
minute. Right? So, if you think about
what it is to express in the world,
you'll never be perfect. It'll never be
good enough. whatever that means it. But
it does require some faith in the
wildness of of life. It's creativity.
It's messy. And and what I'm seeing is
that the thing she's talking about
letting herself do out in the world,
she's not even letting herself do right
here. And so she's containing herself
instead of fully feeling it. And sematic
work is really beautiful work, but it
can sometimes be used to
domesticate yourself rather than to know
yourself.
Awesome. Let's continue. Yep. Yeah. So,
yeah. Yeah. I use my breath to
self-regulate really quickly before I
have to feel sometimes that Yeah. Yeah.
Saw it. Yeah. Well trained. Yeah. So,
we're going to go back to You're not
going to be the best. Yeah. Period.
Yeah. Yeah. There it is. Yeah. I'm not
the best. And for those listening, she
just visibly had some sadness show up. A
little bit of wetness in her eyes.
You're not the best there. I don't even
know if somebody could claim best, but
there's there's definitely people better
than both of us in whatever it is that
you're going to do. Yes. Yeah. Survival
pattern. Be the best. Be the safest. Um
get out of your head. [__] your head.
you you I know you can see the patterns.
You're a mental health professional.
You've seen the patterns for years, but
that doesn't isn't helping you get out
of it. Yeah. So, yeah. So, this is a
really important thing. There's
this is for anybody who has
you can describe what's wrong with them.
They have all the stories, but nothing
is changing. This is a really typical
thing that occurs is that you learn a
new story, you learn rationale, you read
a book, you get it, but it's not
actually changing. And one of the things
that's just a really good trick for
that, if it's happening inside of
yourself, is to say, "No, if I really
understood it, it would have changed. So
clearly I don't."
Rather than resting in the knowing of,
"Oh, I know the story. I know that this
precedes this, that this is all shame
and blah blah blah blah, whatever the
words are. If it hasn't changed, you
don't know it. And it's really like
quite a beautiful hack to admit that to
yourself. So anyways, yeah. And that
also showed up in the very beginning
where she opened with a question and she
was like, I know that I'm ready to give
this to the world. Right. And there's a
way that that is sort of that the it's
got the flavor of an affirmation to
cover up the the lack of uh confidence
in in that truth. So even even there
there was a bit of a bit of self-denial
in the the feeling of
uncertainty. Yeah, that's right. Of
being ready. Yeah. Beautifully seen.
Uh let's move on. You're so not the best
that you can't get out of this. You're
stuck. That's how not the best you are.
Yes, Joe. What the [__] I am supposed
to be the best I can get. I'm supposed
to get out of this. I'm loving the joy
on her face right now. Right. Yeah. So,
I'm literally telling her all of her
worst fears, what should be her worst
fears. You're not the best. You're so
not the best. You can't even get
unstuck. And nothing but joy is coming
out.
Like, oh, fine.
Like it's the relief of not having to be
the best, not having to pretend you're
good enough. All this relief is coming.
Okay. So awesome. Yeah. Right. Oh, all
my tools with everything I know. And I'm
still doing You're actually using your
tools to keep you stuck.
Yeah. Yeah. Yes. Master. Yeah. Cool. So
feel that. Yeah. Now I see. Yeah. Feel
that for a second. Yeah. It's a
beautiful moment. And if you're
listening, she's starting to tear up and
and she has this great fluidity of
seeing the joy and the relief in it and
then being able to feel the grief, which
she really shows her capacity here. She
has a lot of capacity for
for doing the work. So, you have two
survival techniques that are working
here. Yeah. Yes. And I'm just [__]
tired of that. I am frustrated. Yeah.
Yeah. Tell me all about it. Tell me all
about it. Yes. I'm just so frustrated
holding myself back. I'm only here on
this planet for a short amount of time
and I have some stuff to do and I'm
tired. Okay, cool. So, what I'm seeing
now is the the sadness actually comes
out when you're [__] angry. So, you
avoid anger with sadness and you avoid
sadness with with sematic presencing.
What the [__]
I really worked this. I know. Yeah.
Uh yeah. Yeah. Interesting to see there
that there's there's a part of her that
feels it it seems to me it seems like
there's a part of her that feels kind of
proud for the way it's like at least the
for the wiliness and the intelligence in
the way that she's stayed stuck. Like
there's almost a way that her system is
kind of honoring like hey well you know
what maybe I've been stuck. Maybe have
felt stuck, but like look at how
uh
uh look at how elaborate this cage.
Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Yeah, there is
that. It is very sweet. There isn't a
shame around it. There is a there's like
somewhat of a pride in it, which is
really quite lovely. Yeah. Yeah. And
it's funny like Yeah. Anger is something
that I um have been playing with a
little more.
Oh, I feel like on fire when I get
angry, there's like this fire in my
belly. Yeah. And I just want to go and I
want to go and then all of a sudden
something comes in and that's it just
happened. Yeah. It literally just
happened. You show up with a just a
little bit of anger and then you like
I'm [__] angry and I want to do
something.
Yeah. feels.
Yeah.
Yeah. Right. So, so two things are
happening simultaneously. The first one
is that you see on some level which is
you had to be the best. Mhm. But the
second one is that like you were trying
to be the best to please somebody so
that they would stop being mentally
something abusive with you. Right. And
so and that's where your anger gets
repressed.
H I'm just going to pause right there
and ask a question for the audience. I'm
imagining many people in the audience
asking this like, "Wait a minute. How
did you just make that leap to her
childhood?" Right? And so I want to ask
you that question. How did you make that
leap to her childhood? And how how do
you uh how do you navigate that when
you're bringing something up as like a
empathy guess or a uh as a a prompt?
Yeah. To link something back to their
history. I could have it a little bit
wrong here and there, but we learn like
it's the law of human nature that we
learn what we need to do to get love and
be safe. To get attention, to get love,
to be safe. So, she learned that being
the perfect
best at
kept her safe, which means she needed to
be safe from something.
It means that she this is the way she
got love or at least
was safe. And so if that's true, there's
some level of abuse in that. If you're
looking at a kid deserves love and
attention and to feel safe no matter
what.
And anything else is like some level of
abuse. So I could have not used the word
abuse partially. I'm looking at the
response and you can see when if you're
looking at her face when I say it, she's
like trying to figure it out. Then she
kind of sees it out of the corner of her
eye. So, but if you use a word like
approval,
it doesn't actually hit the system in in
a sematic way. And because to just I
remember for instance when I was in um
in a a therapy session with Tara early
on in our relationship and
our therapist is like this is verbal
abuse and both of our us were like no
it's not verbal abuse and it's until we
could admit to ourselves that it was
abuse that that we could feel it own it
change it
And
criticizing a kid all the time is abuse.
Expecting perfection out of a kid is
abuse. And until you can see it and own
it and feel it, it's going to be a long
haul to actually change that pattern.
Mhm. Yeah. And also in in recognizing
abuse where abuse exists, you can apply
the same thing. If you have a
perfectionism mindset towards it, like
if if this person's parents watch this
video or someone who's a parent watched
this video and sees a pattern that they
see in their child for them to
recognize, wait, what? That was abuse.
They could be like, "Oh, I'm so bad. I'm
so wrong." Or they could be like, "Oh,
yeah. There's just all of this stuff
that we're swimming in in our through
the generations, through our society,
and I've clearly carried some of it, and
there's no shame in that." That's right.
Opportunity for recognition. Yeah,
that's right. Yeah. I don't It's odd. I
don't make abuser the abuser wrong. Like
there's no wrong doesn't solve the
problem. Acknowledgement of it solves
the problem. Beautiful.
Awesome. Let's move on. Yeah. Cuz you
either don't want to be like that person
or there's some something going on
there.
So let me just actually hear your anger
that is not a victim anger right so it's
not an anger of why can't I just it's
like [__] you [__] that [__] like
aggressive like I am going to dominate
I am not going to be dominated so can I
yeah like just yes to me [__]
I've got something I have to say it's
important that I say this God I'm
already feeling it though Joe it starts
to go already. I feel it. I can't pass
that. Keep Keep coming. Don't Don't
Don't Don't let it stop you for one
minute. One minute. I can feel it's
dampering. But I'm so tired of it. I'm
so angry. That's the victim. Yep. Okay.
Tired of it? No. [__] you. I have
something to say. I have something to
say. I need to say it right now. You're
going to listen. You're gonna H back up.
Uh something something somebody I'm
pissed off at. There it is. Oh, and what
just happened is
as soon as you made a demand of somebody
else
Yeah. Yeah. Because this is a relational
trauma. [__] this. Yeah. It's Yeah. So,
do me a favor. Make in a in an
aggressive tone, make 10 demands of me.
It's not personal. I'm not going to do
them. Just make or make five demands of
me. Uh gosh, see that's hard. Um, yeah,
she said oo, but she was also excited.
Okay, Joe, give me an answer. Tell me
what I need to do. Um, understand me.
Um,
uh, oh, see, this is harder than I
thought it was going to be. One thing
that's interesting here is watching the
way that she enjoys it. When she gets
into that, the moments of dominating
anger, I see the same enjoyment on her
face that she had when she talked about
how she kept the cage around herself.
Like, oh yeah, I've done all these
things. I've done this and that. And
like, yep, I did a really good job of
keeping myself in this pattern. It's
like the same level of satisfaction
she's getting from both. It seems to me
it's fascinating. Yeah. Uh
I can tell the world this, but like
telling you something is much harder.
like the symbol of I need something. I
have needs. Oh, wow. I have needs, Joe.
No, that's that's okay. I have needs and
I'm not going to share them with you
because I've got this. I'm on my island.
It's all right. You go do you and I'm
going to figure this out on my own.
Right. Which is why I almost didn't
raise my hand here, too, because I'm
like, what am I doing being all visible?
Yep. Yeah. You have needs. And I have
needs, right? And you don't share them.
You don't even share them with yourself.
It wasn't safe to have needs and to
share needs. So I was self-reliant. I
became a therapist. I was very good at
being able to do that. So what's the
need? What's the need that you have
that's moving this thing in you that
wants to go out into the world that
you have to express
the belief? I I have a need to believe
in myself. It It's this h it's just like
I know that I have a gift. Oh, that's a
[__] story. You all you believe in
yourself. Clearly. I believe in myself.
That's why I'm confused. I believe in
myself. I know I've got this. Yeah. So,
be in that belief for a minute.
I know I've got this. No, that's you
trying to convince yourself. Okay. Yeah.
Self-belief. I do believe in myself.
Yeah, you clearly do. Yeah, I believe
myself. You wouldn't have called raised
You wouldn't have raised your hand. You
wouldn't have Yeah. And I asked this
question because I believe in myself.
So, hold on.
You believe in yourself. And tell me
what your need is. I believe in myself
and I need to move forward with what I
know.
I need to go create what I am ready to
create. Yeah.
Yeah. and do it with confidence. Do it.
What makes what makes you need it with
confidence?
Because it's when I doubt myself that
things go wrong. It's it's when I doubt
myself that I lose momentum or I lose
funding or I lose when you doubt
yourself or when you doubt your anger.
My anger.
H
can I be angry?
Yeah, some of it is
anger.
Uh that's anger and in Tibetan world
they say that anger unresisted is
determination and clarity.
Yeah. Okay. Determination that feels
right. Fire belly out of your head.
Yeah. Like and that's only time I I I
get free of this is when I am moving
when I am doing dance if I'm lost. Yeah.
I I will feel the spark and it gets it
gets really hella strong. It's there and
I'm like wow like you should be doing
this. And then
something that's really interesting here
as well that I'm noticing is that when
she's in that clarity there's just
movement. And
when when she goes into the doubt, there
is the fear of not living up to
potential, which then creates an urgency
in her system. And she uses that urgency
to create like a sense of confidence or
drive,
but it's also kind of like putting the
gas and the brakes at the same time.
Yeah. Yeah. There's a lot of squealing
of the tires that way.
Yeah, it's well seen. Okay. So, I just
have I have a hack for you and then this
will this will do it. So, I want you to
go into the doubt for a moment. All the
doubt.
It's not going to be the best. You're
going to [__] it up. No one's going to
pay attention. No one's going to listen.
Yeah. You feel the doubt. Yeah. And open
your heart to it.
Love the doubt.
And there's some fear.
Just keep loving the doubt.
How close is that to the way you feel
when you dance?
Yeah. Much closer. Yeah. So, you've got
two jobs.
Move the anger every day. Move the
anger. Not Not that kind of victimy
anger, but that that dominant anger.
Don't do it at anybody. I mean, you can
do it at somebody but just not with them
in the room, right? You can like move
that anger at people but just not with
them in the room or whatever. And every
time you go into your head spin of
doubt, move into opening your heart to
the doubt.
[Music]
Yeah. You can feel that really grounded.
Yeah. Belly energy. Yeah. Yeah. There's
one thing that I'll say. If you go back
to the when I say the heart and you see
her go into if you're watching this
video, you see her, it's very similar to
what happened at the beginning. So, at
the very beginning, she closes her eyes.
She's disconnected
from me. And in this particular case,
you you can see that it's overwhelming
her a little bit. You can see that it's
fully embodied. It's not an escape. It's
an embodiment. And so I just want to
because I'm sure people
um there are people who don't understand
probably when they're doing which one.
And so here's a great example of it. If
you look at her, let's watch the tape
for a second. I want to show you where
you can see it. I want you to go into
the doubt for a moment. All the doubt.
It's not going to be the best. You're
going to [__] it up. No one's going to
pay attention. No one's going to listen.
Yeah. You feel the doubt? Yep. And open
your heart to it. When you say doubt,
she's looking down. You can see the
shame. You can see her tucking her belly
a little bit. And now you're like, "Oh,
the heart." Now, watch what happens
right here to her face
and there's some fear. So it's like that
moment of like she's it literally feels
like the emotion is moving her
physically in the body. So it's not
about how do I suppress this emotion.
It's actually alive in her. You can see
her her head kind of move like a wave.
And that's it's an interesting thing to
know the difference between oh I'm
closing my eyes and I'm dissociative or
I'm I'm separating myself from myself or
I'm closing my eyes and I'm I'm stepping
more deeply into myself.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's it's amazing how
subtle that difference is from the from
the very beginning of the session, doubt
creeps up and she did some breathing to
suppress or to to get to move away from
that experience. Yeah. End of the
session, some doubt shows up. She opens
her heart to it and her system moves.
Yeah. And visibly on the screen it takes
sort of a trained eye to even recognize
the difference. But if you imagine over
the course of a lifetime built up of
many weeks, months, days where little
moments like that occur and you open
your heart to that doubt
rather than sematically move away from
it and what happens in your life. Yeah.
And the other thing to say is if you
notice right at the beginning she's 25
years of therapy like that's running
from the doubt
like there's there's a perpetual if you
look through the tape there's this
perpetual running from the doubt and
this is her first time stepping fully
into the doubt. I have to be confident
is running from the doubt. We all doubt
like we we none of us move with 100%
confidence. The question is how how well
that's not even right the way I was
going to say how well can you be with
the doubt but I would say how much can
you welcome the doubt
is the difference not if you have it or
not.
Yeah. It's like how much how much of the
struggle that we associate with doubt in
our lives is actually the reaction to
the doubt. Yeah. That's right. Our doubt
comes up and we go into a trigger
response and try to manage. That's
everything too, right? How much of the
issue isn't the issue, it's how we react
to the issue. Yeah, exactly. Or react to
the reaction. Also, just for those
listening, maybe put a couple more
signposts around the anger. You
mentioned like Yeah. You basically like
prescribed her move some anger every
day. Yes. And we've done a couple
episodes on anger that go into that in a
little bit more detail, but just for
those who might have this be the one
episode that they listen to of our
entire podcast. Yeah. Yeah. What does
that mean when you invite her to move
anger every day? You can move it at
people but not with them in the room.
What does exactly that? Yeah. Well, so
if you're listening to this, go listen
to the anger podcast before doing it.
It's important because it can bring up a
lot of uh emotions and nervous system
responses.
What it means is that typically the way
we're taught is that you can either
contain your anger or you can get angry
at somebody. You're either yelling at
your mom or you're trying not to yell at
your mom. So that and there's this third
option that for whatever reason very few
people do, which is go move your anger.
Just don't do it with your mom around.
Let it move. Get that happening and then
come back and and be with your mom. And
if you are
feeling stuck in particular this this
particular case it's one of the thing
one of the big signs symptoms of
repressed anger.
So then you start moving your anger and
you move it on a regular basis and then
the the anger over time becomes a little
less personal.
It becomes more like you're going to the
bathroom and less like you believe the
story.
It's just an energy that needs to move.
And when you do it, one thing to know is
that it'll increase for a while. The
anger all of a sudden you'll feel more
and more anger and then it'll dissipate
over time. And the important thing is to
not judge or have shame over anger. We
all have it. And it's to let it move so
that it turns into
the anger that is
decisive, that is clear, that is
the anger that Gandhi had or the anger
that Martin Luther King had, the anger
that's full of love. Beautiful. Thank
you, Joe. And I also want to thank our
participant for being a being a willing
guest on the public Q&A and onto the
podcast. Awesome. Thanks, Brett. Yeah,
and thanks everybody for listening. If
you enjoyed this episode, please share
it with a friend. We also love it if you
like, rate, give us five stars or
whatever many stars on any of the
podcast platforms or follow us on
YouTube at Art of Accomplishment. You
can also follow us on X at Art of AMP at
FU_J Hudson and Eric Kistler. The Art of
Accomplishment was produced and hosted
by myself, Brett Kistler, and Joe
Hudson. Mi Kelly is our production
coordinator, and this episode was edited
by On Replay.
[Music]